ROX-11188: create quick installation script for oss helm charts (#2565)
stackrox/stackrox: README.md

    - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
    - [Community](#community)
    - [Deploying StackRox](#deploying-stackrox)
        - [Quick Installation via Helm](#quick-installation-via-helm)

>         - [Manual Installation via Helm](#manual-installation-via-helm)

Reviewer: I know it was like this, but I would replace `via` with `using` :)

Author: Right, avoid latin

            - [Default Central Installation](#default-central-installation)
            - [Install Central in Clusters With Limited Resources](#install-central-in-clusters-with-limited-resources)

>             - [Default Secured Cluster Installation](#default-secured-cluster-installation)

Reviewer 2: Do you mind deleting sub-items of `Manual Installation using Helm` from the table of contents?
Like I wrote above, I don't think there's much benefit in having them.

    + [How to Deploy](#how-to-deploy)
* [Generating portable installers](#generating-portable-installers)

## Installation via Helm

### Quick Installation

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.

> Then simply run the helm quick install script (or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options)

Reviewer: - Remove word `simply` - it may be annoying for users who struggle with this step (for any reason).
- There is no need for parenthesis around `or proceed...` - remove it. Remember that in technical writing, parentheses can always be ignored. Does this sentence convey the same message If we remove all the text between them?

Author: Good to know, I'll remember it. On that note, do we have a style guide for technical writing anywhere?

Reviewer: This may be too much to gather in a guide and I am not aware of any guide existing in Confluence/Rover. May be there is something at the level of RedHat? Maybe a course?

I learned from this book https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/601222.Bugs_in_Writing I can truly recommend it, but it may be difficult to get.

```sh
./scripts/quick-helm-install.sh 

> ```

Reviewer 2: We're back at requiring user to `git clone` this repository. The whole point of Helm-based installation was to **not** require the user to clone this repo. Any ideas how to avoid that?

Author: Good point, perhaps we could do something like ´curl -0 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh´? I think that should work.

Reviewer 2: You can have a one-liner by piping curl output to `bash`. That's typically how it's done in other projects.
Please make sure curl will fail promptly on unsuccessful HTTP response status.

Author: I'll use `curl --fail-with-body https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh | bash` then

Reviewer 2: Note that `--fail-with-body` may not be supported in older versions of `curl`. Curl 7.68.0 I have on Ubuntu 20.04 doesn't seem to know that. Just `--fail` should be more understood.

> The script will add the stackrox helm repository, generate an admin password, install stackrox-central-services, create an init bundle for shared secrets, and finally create one secured cluster.

Reviewer: Prefer present simple in manuals: `The script adds...`

> If you wish to create more secured clusters you may do so using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add another secured cluster, run the following:
```

This text should be placed somewhere later - the user didn't see the UI yet and we write already about another secured cluster?

```sh
helm install -n stackrox stackrox-secured-cluster-services stackrox/stackrox-secured-cluster-services \
  -f stackrox-init-bundle.yaml \
  --set clusterName="$CLUSTER_NAME"

> ```

Reviewer 2: 1. I don't think there's any need to provide this info here given that it's printed by the `quick-helm-install.sh` script.
2. This command isn't correct in general case because _additional_ secured clusters will need a central endpoint which is external for them.

I suggest to take it out from here and potentially from the script. Instead, I suggest to link to documentation that explains `stackrox/stackrox-secured-cluster-services` in greater detail (you actually have it below).

Author: Makes sense to me, I will do this.

> 

Reviewer 2: Before the end of `Quick Installation` section, please mention that the script creates `stackrox-init-bundle.yaml` file in the current directory. This file contains sensitive information and the user should either delete it or move to some secure place.

Author: Done

#### First use

> Follow these steps to get to StackRox UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the Stackrox UI in the browser, do the following:  
```

> 1.Setup port forward to central:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Setup port forward to central:
```

Author: Done

```sh
kubectl -n stackrox port-forward deploy/central 8000:8443
```

> 2.Open <https://localhost:8000> in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open <https://localhost:8000> in your browser.
```

Author: Done

> 3.If a certificate warning is displayed, you can accept the warnings to install the default self-signed certificate. To configure custom certificates, see the section on "Adding Custom Certificates" in <https://docs.openshift.com/acs/configuration/add-custom-certificates.html>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If a certificate warning is displayed, you can accept the warnings to install the default self-signed certificate. To configure custom certificates, see the section on "Adding Custom Certificates" in <https://docs.openshift.com/acs/configuration/add-custom-certificates.html>.
```

Author: Done

> 4. Log in as `admin` using the password in `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`

Reviewer 2: 1. If things are ambiguous and can be misunderstood, they **will** be misunderstood.
In this case, what is `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`? Maybe you could add a command that just reveals the password for users so they can copy-paste it from the terminal?
2. Overall, these `First use` instructions are now incompatible with `Manual Helm Installation` because the latter one relies on the password in `stackrox-admin-password.txt` file, not in `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Author: 1. The script stores the password in `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD` instead of making a password file since it seemed redundant, it also prints the password at the end of the script so users can already copy-paste from there.
2. This is true, but I would rather have both installation methods work in the same way than provide two sets of instructions. Would you be okay with me changing the manual instructions to use `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`as well?

Reviewer 2: Re 1: My point is that the text

> 4. Log in as `admin` using the password in `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`

is **ambiguous**. Perhaps only you, Piotr and I know what is `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`.
Usually, when you mention environment variable you do it like

> 4. Log in as `admin` using the password in `$STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD`

----

Re 2: I don't mind. Whichever way you like. Please make sure you thoroughly test manual instructions after the change.

Reviewer 2: Re 1: I'm realizing that `STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD` is not actually exported from the script (it just can't be). Therefore the user will not be able to run `echo $STACKROX_ADMIN_PASSWORD` after running the script.
You should somehow more accurately refer to the script's output for the password.
That said, if you teach the script to open the browser, this "First use" section may become unnecessary for quickstart and can be moved back to the manual instructions.

> 4.Log in as `admin` using the password in `stackrox-admin-password.txt`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Log in as `admin` using the password in `stackrox-admin-password`
```

Author: Done

### Manual Helm Installation

> In order to install StackRox via Helm you will first need to follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install StackRox using Helm, you must have `helm` on your system. To install `helm` CLI, follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/).
```

Author: I don't see what's wrong with the original sentence, but I don't mind changing it.

Reviewer: There is nothing wrong - it just uses some words that are not always clear for the readers from other cultures.

1. "In order to" can be almost always reduced to a "to"
2. "via" is not common and is mostly used in lands where children have learned latin at school. The english `using` is a clear indication that one needs to use a tool to reach the goal.
3. "You will first need to" - there is no need to point to the future here. The user might want to do it right now. Additionally, present tense may also indicate future and this is the form that we mostly see in such manuals.
4. The user does not "need" to follow the manual - they just need to have the Helm binary on their system.

Technical writing is not trivial (even for natives) and you should not feel the pressure to learn it. I am not saying that I mastered it (as it took me about 8 years to learn it and I still make many mistakes) but I thought I would share my thoughts as a part of this review.

    + [How to Deploy](#how-to-deploy)
* [Generating portable installers](#generating-portable-installers)

## Installation via Helm

### Quick Installation

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.
Then run the helm quick install script or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options.
```sh
curl --fail https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh | bash
```

> You may use the `--small` option in order to install StackRox on smaller clusters with limited resources.

Reviewer 2: Would be nice if you could err on the side of verbosity and add the complete command that the user can copy and paste.

```sh
curl ... | bash --small
```

I'm afraid `--small` wouldn't just work like that that's why I'm asking for you to solve this problem for users.

Author: Okay, I'll add another line the user can just copy and paste.

Reviewer: For inspiration, here is the command suggested for installing brew. Maybe we could us the same form and curl parameters?

```sh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

src: https://brew.sh/

Author: Well my current solution is to do
`curl --fail https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh | bash -s -- -small`
I could change it to the way brew does it, but then I would change it in both cases to be consistent.

Reviewer: Yes please, change both - see my other comment to check why.

    + [How to Deploy](#how-to-deploy)
* [Generating portable installers](#generating-portable-installers)

## Installation via Helm

### Quick Installation

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.
Then run the helm quick install script or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options.
```sh

> /bin/bash "$(curl --fail https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"

Reviewer: Several things here:
- I think you need `-c` to bash to make it work
- I suggest adding `-sSL` to curl params (short or long form, both is okay)

See yourself what happens when you call a resource that does not exist:
- `/bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/non-existing/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"`
- `/bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail  -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/non-existing/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"`
- `/bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail -sS https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/non-existing/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"`
- (No example for `-L` but trust me, we want curl to follow redirections on codes 301 and 302)
- The same but no `-c` for bash: `/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/non-existing/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"`

Author: Just read through the man pages of bash and curl a bit, I'll take the -c option and -fsSL options.

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.
Then run the helm quick install script or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options.
```sh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"
```

> Installing StackRox this way requires multiple CPU resources and may fail if insufficient resources are available. You may use the `--small` option in order to install StackRox on smaller clusters with limited resources.

Reviewer: Well, we could write that it is at least 4.2 CPU, but that is also ok 👍

---

## Deploying StackRox

### Quick Installation via Helm

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.
Then run the helm quick install script or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options.

**<details><summary>Install StackRox via Helm Installation Script </summary>**

```sh

> /bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"

Reviewer: The same `-f|--fail` issue here.

```
Installing StackRox this way requires multiple CPU resources and may fail if insufficient resources are available. You may use the `--small` option in order to install StackRox on smaller clusters with limited resources.
```sh

> /bin/bash -c "$(curl --fail -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)" --small

Reviewer: The `--fail` is the long version of `-f`, so maybe let's remove the `--fail`

Author: Oops, done

```
The script adds the StackRox helm repository, generates an admin password, installs stackrox-central-services, creates an init bundle for shared secrets, and finally creates one secured cluster.

> In the folder that the script is run in an init bundle file `stackrox-init-bundle.yaml` is created. Store it safely if you want to create additional secured clusters, otherwise delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the folder that the script is run in, an init bundle file `stackrox-init-bundle.yaml` is created. Store it safely if you want to create additional secured clusters, otherwise delete it.
```

Reviewer: Or even better:

```suggestion
An init bundle file `stackrox-init-bundle.yaml` is created in the folder that the script is executed. Store it safely for creating additional secured clusters, or delete it if no secured cluster are planned.
```

Author: Ok

> Finally, the script will automatically log you into StackRox. A certificate warning may be displayed since the certificate is self-signed, see the next section [First use](#first-use) regarding those warnings. After authenticating you can access the dashboard via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the script will automatically log you into StackRox. A certificate warning may be displayed since the certificate is self-signed. See the [First use](#first-use) section to read more about the warnings. After authenticating you can access the dashboard using
```

Author: Too long a sentence, I see

* <https://localhost:8000/main/dashboard>

> To further customize your Helm installation consult these documents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further customize your Helm installation, consult these documents:
```

Or better:

```suggestion
Consult the following documents to further customize your Helm installation:
```

Author: I prefer the former sentence since the most relevant information (this is to further customize Helm) is given first. Good catch on the comma

* <https://docs.openshift.com/acs/installing/installing_helm/install-helm-quick.html>
* <https://docs.openshift.com/acs/installing/installing_helm/install-helm-customization.html>

</details>

### Manual Installation via Helm

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get the `helm` CLI on your system.

> 

Reviewer: One empty line is enough here :)

---

## Deploying StackRox

### Quick Installation using Helm

StackRox offers quick installation via Helm Charts. Follow the [Helm Installation Guide](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) to get `helm` CLI on your system.
Then run the helm quick install script or proceed to section [Manual Helm Installation](#manual-helm-installation) for configuration options.

**<details><summary>Install StackRox via Helm Installation Script </summary>**

```sh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)"
```

> Installing StackRox this way requires multiple CPU resources and may fail if insufficient resources are available. You may use the `--small` option in order to install StackRox on smaller clusters with limited resources.

Author: Okay

```sh
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackrox/stackrox/master/scripts/quick-helm-install.sh)" --small
```

> The script adds the StackRox helm repository, generates an admin password, installs stackrox-central-services, creates an init bundle for shared secrets, and finally creates one secured cluster.

Author: Okay

> An init bundle file `stackrox-init-bundle.yaml` is created in the folder that the script is executed. Store it safely for creating additional secured clusters, or delete it if no secured cluster are planned.

Author: In that case I'll delete it here since I just added it to the script.

> Finally, the script will automatically log you into StackRox. A certificate warning may be displayed since the certificate is self-signed. See the [First use](#first-use) section to read more about the warnings. After authenticating you can access the dashboard using

Reviewer 2: Found it. It is in `accessing-the-stackrox-user-interface-ui` section. I'm sure you can quickly spot the problem with `stackrox-admin-password.txt` "folder".

> Finally, the script will automatically log you into StackRox. A certificate warning may be displayed since the certificate is self-signed. See the [First use](#first-use) section to read more about the warnings. After authenticating you can access the dashboard using

Author: Ah, i must've missed that when I was resolving merge conflicts between this and master, I'll fix it.

> * <https://localhost:8000/main/dashboard>

Author: Personally I think it looks better this way than integrated into the text but I don't mind changing it.
